# Notes from 22 Immutable Laws of Branding

© 1998 Al Ries and Laura Ries

## Introduction

> Can a successful brand appeal to everybody? No. The same concept of singularity makes certain that no one brand can possibly have a universal appeal.
>
> Yet, broadening the base, widening the appeal, and extending the line are all popular trends in marketing. The same forces that try to increase a company’s market share are also the forces that undermine the power of the brand.
>
> ...
>
> Conventional marketing is based on selling when it should be based on branding. Marketing is not selling. Marketing is building a brand in the mind of the prospect. If you can build a powerful brand, you will have a powerful marketing program. If you can’t, then all the advertising, fancy packaging, sales promotion, Web designs, and public relations in the world won’t help you achieve your objective.
>
> ...
> What is accelerating this trend is the decline of selling. Selling, as a profession and as a function, is slowly sinking like the Titanic. Today most products and services are bought, not sold. And branding greatly facilitates this process. Branding “pre-sells” the product or service to the user. Branding is simply a more efficient way to sell things.


> ... In financial services, for example, companies like Charles Schwab, E*Trade, Fidelity, and Vanguard are offering direct access, cheaper commissions, and on-line customer service, giving traditional stockbrokers a run for their money.

## The 22 Immutable Laws of Branding

### 1. The Law of Expansion

> **The power of a brand is inversely proportional to its scope.**
>
> ...
>
> The emphasis in most companies is on the short term. Line extension, megabranding, variable pricing, and a host of other sophisticated marketing techniques are being used to milk brands rather than build them. While milking may bring in easy money in the short term, in the long term it wears down the brand until it no longer stands for anything.
>
> ...
>
> Levi Strauss has done the same with blue jeans. In order to appeal to a wider market, Levi introduced a plethora of different styles and cuts, including baggy, zippered, and wide-leg jeans. At one point, Levi’s jeans were available in twenty-seven different cuts. And if you could not find a pair of jeans off the rack to fit, Levi’s would even custom cut jeans to your exact measurements. Yet over the past seven years the company’s share of the denim jeans market has fallen from 31 to 19 percent.
>
> ...
>
> Many companies try to justify line extension by invoking the masterbrand, superbrand, or megabrand concept.
>  - Chevrolet is the megabrand and Camaro, Caprice, Cavalier, Corsica-Beretta, Corvette, Lumina, Malibu, Metro, Monte Carlo, and Prizm are the individual brands.
>  - Pontiac is the megabrand and Bonneville, Firebird, Grand Am, Grand Prix, and Sunfire are the individual brands.
>  - Buick is the megabrand and Century, LeSabre, Park Avenue, and Regal are the individual brands.
>
> But people don’t think this way. In their minds, most people try to assign one brand name to each product. And they are not consistent in how they assign such names. They tend to use the name that best captures the essence of the product. It could be the megabrand name. Or the model name. Or a nickname.
>
> Marketers constantly run branding programs that are in conflict with how people want to perceive their brands. Customers want brands that are narrow in scope and are distinguishable by a single word, the shorter the better.

Is this still happening today where marketers are out of touch with the customers?

> If your competition is weak or nonexistent, you can often increase sales by weakening your brand. That is, by expanding it over more segments of the market. You can therefore draw the conclusion that line extension works.
> 
> But in so doing, the only thing you have demonstrated is the weakness of the competition. Coca-Cola had nothing to lose when it launched Diet Coke, because the competition (Pepsi-Cola) also had a line-extended product called Diet Pepsi.
> 
> While extending the line might bring added sales in the short term, it runs counter to the notion of branding. If you want to build a powerful brand in the minds of consumers, you need to contract your brand, not expand it.
>
> In the long term, expanding your brand will diminish your power and weaken your image.

### 2. The Law of Contraction

> **A brand becomes stronger when you narrow its focus.**
>
> Every small town in America has a coffee shop. In larger cities and towns you can often find coffee shops on every other block.
>
> So what can you find to eat in a coffee shop? Everything. Breakfast, lunch, dinner. Pancakes, muffins, hot dogs, hamburgers, sandwiches, pie, ice cream, and, of course, coffee.
>
> What did Howard Schultz do? In an incredible burst of business creativity, he opened a coffee shop that specialized in, of all things, coffee. In other words, he narrowed the focus.
> 
> Today Schultz’s brainchild, Starbucks, is a rapidly growing chain that does hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of business annually. His company, Starbucks Corp., is worth $8.7 billion on the stock market. And Howard Schultz owns a substantial share of that stock.
>
> ...
> 
> Charles Lazarus owned one store, called Children’s Supermart, which sold two things: children’s furniture and toys. But he wanted to grow.
>
> What is the conventional way to grow? Adding more things to sell. Sure, he could have added bicycles, baby food, diapers, and children’s clothing to the store. But he didn’t.
> 
> Instead, Charles Lazarus threw out the furniture and focused on toys.
>
> Good things happen when you contract your brand rather than expand it. First he filled the empty half of the store with more toys, giving the buyer a greater selection and more reason to visit the store. Then, instead of calling it Children’s Supermart, Lazarus called his place Toys “R” Us.
>
> Today Toys “R” Us sells 20 percent of all the toys sold in the United States. And the chain has become the model for the specialty stores or category killers on the retail scene. Home Depot in home supplies. The Gap in everyday casual clothing. The Limited in clothes for working women. Victoria’s Secret in ladies’ lingerie. PetsMart in pet supplies. Blockbuster Video in video rentals. CompUSA in computers. Foot Locker in athletic shoes.
>
> ...
>
> Good things happen when you contract rather than expand your business. Most retail category killers follow the same five-step pattern.
> 
> 1. Narrow the focus. A powerful branding program always starts by contracting the category, not expanding it.
> 2. Stock in depth. A typical Toys “R” Us store carries 10,000 toys versus 3,000 toys for a large department store.
> 3. Buy cheap. Toys “R” Us makes its money buying toys, not selling toys.
> 4. Sell cheap. When you can buy cheap, you can sell cheap and still maintain good margins.
> 5. Dominate the category. The ultimate objective of any branding program is to dominate a category.

### 3. The Law of Publicity

> **The birth of a brand is achieved with publicity, not advertising.**
>
> ... Most marketers confuse brand building with brand maintenance. While a hefty advertising budget might be needed to maintain high-flying brands like McDonald’s and Coca-Cola, advertising generally won’t get a new brand off the ground.
>
> Anita Roddick built The Body Shop into a major brand with no advertising at all. Instead she traveled the world on a relentless quest for publicity, pushing her ideas about the environment. It was the endless torrent of newspaper and magazine articles, plus radio and television interviews, that literally created The Body Shop brand.
>
> ...
>
> And just how do you generate publicity? The best way to generate publicity is by being first. In other words, by being the first brand in a new category.
>  - Band-Aid, the first adhesive bandage
>  - Charles Schwab, the first discount stockbrokerage firm
>  - CNN, the first cable news network
>  - Compaq, the first portable personal computer
>  - Domino’s, the first home delivery pizza chain
>  - ESPN, the first cable sports network
>  - Gore-Tex, the first breathable waterproof cloth
>  - Heineken, the first imported beer
>  - Hertz, the first car-rental company
>  - Intel, the first microprocessor
>  - Jell-O, the first gelatin dessert
>  - Kentucky Fried Chicken, the first fast-food chicken chain
>  - National Enquirer, the first supermarket tabloid
>  - Playboy, the first men’s magazine
>  - Q-Tips, the first cotton swab
>  - Reynolds Wrap, the first aluminum foil
>  - Rollerblade, the first in-line skate
>  - Samuel Adams, the first microbrewed beer
>  - Saran Wrap, the first plastic food wrap
>  - Sun Microsystems, the first Unix workstation
>  - Time, the first weekly news magazine
>  - Xerox, the first plain-paper copier
>
> All of these brands (and many, many more) were first in a new category and, in the process, generated enormous amounts of publicity.
>
> There’s a strong relationship between the two. The news media wants to talk about what’s new, what’s first, and what’s hot, not what’s better. When your brand can make news, it has a chance to generate publicity. And the best way to make news is to announce a new category, not a new product.
>
> What others say about your brand is much more powerful than what you say about it yourself. That’s why publicity in general is more effective than advertising. And why, over the past two decades, public relations has eclipsed advertising as the most effective force in branding.

### 4. The Law of Advertising

> **Once born, a brand needs advertising to stay healthy**
>
> Your advertising budget is like a country’s defense budget. Those massive advertising dollars don’t buy you anything; they just keep you from losing market share to your competition.
>
> ...
> Publicity is a powerful tool, but sooner or later a brand outlives its publicity potential. The process normally goes through two distinct phases.
>
> Phase one involves the introduction of the new category—the plain-paper copier, for example, introduced by Xerox in 1959. Hundreds of magazine and newspaper articles were written about the launch of the 914 copier. Xerox executives also appeared on numerous television shows to demonstrate their new baby. Much was written about the potential of the new category.
>
> Phase two concerns the rise of the company that pioneered the new category. Again, hundreds of articles were written about the marketing and financial successes of Xerox, a company that rose from the ashes of Haloid, a manufacturer of photographic paper.
>
> Today, everybody knows that Xerox pioneered xerography and has become a global leader in copiers. There’s no news story left to tell, so advertising takes over.
>
> ...
>
> Sooner or later a leader has to shift its branding strategy from publicity to advertising. By raising the price of admission, advertising makes it difficult for a competitor to carve out a substantial share of the market.
>
> ...
>
> Leaders should not look on their advertising budgets as investments that will pay dividends. Instead leaders should look on their advertising budgets as insurance that will protect them against losses caused by competitive attacks.
>
> What should a brand leader advertise? Brand leadership, of course. Leadership is the single most important motivating factor in consumer behavior.
>  - Heinz, America’s favorite ketchup
>  - Budweiser, king of beers
>  - Coca-Cola, the real thing
>  - Visa, it’s everywhere you want to be
>  - Barilla, Italy’s #1 pasta
>  - Goodyear, #1 in tires
>
> ...
> But what happens when your advertising says, “Our product is better”? What does the reader, the viewer, or the listener to the advertisement really think when you make the claim that you produce a better product?
>
> “That’s what they all say.”
>
> Pick up a copy of any magazine or newspaper and flip through the advertisements. Almost every ad makes some type of better-product claim. That’s what they all say.
>
> But what happens when your advertising says, “Our product is the leader”? What does the prospect think?
>
> “It must be better.”
>
> ...
>
> Advertising may not pay for itself, but if you’re the leader, advertising will make your competitor pay through the nose for the privilege of competing with you. Many won’t be able to afford it; those who can won’t bother. Instead they’ll be content to nibble on the crumbs around your huge piece of the pie.

### 5. The Law of the Word

> **A brand should strive to own a word in the mind of the consumer.**
>
> ...
>
> Volvo owns the word “safety” in the mind of the automobile buyer. And, as a result, over the past decade Volvo has become the largest-selling European luxury car in America.
> 
> ...
>
> Yet none of these three brands (Mercedes, Volvo, and BMW) is a perfect example of the law of the word since they have all recently violated the law. Mercedes has moved into less expensive, less prestigious cars. Volvo into sporty cars. And BMW into more luxurious cars.
>
> And so it goes. The minute a brand begins to stand for something in the mind, the company that owns the brand looks for ways to broaden the base, to get into other markets, to capture other attributes. This is a serious error and one of the most common mistakes in branding.
>
> ...
> Why don’t the many varieties of tissue dilute the Kleenex brand? Because when a person looks across a room, sees a box of Scott tissue, and says: “Please hand me a Kleenex,” you know you have a solid brand locked into the mind of the consumer.
> 
> In the same way that Kleenex owns tissue, Jell-O owns gelatin dessert, Coca-Cola owns cola, Band-Aid owns adhesive bandage, Saran Wrap owns plastic food film, and Rollerblade owns in-line skates

I think the point made is more than the word. The name of a company is used for reference but the psychological association in the minds of people is set by the reputation of the kind of consistent service it offers.

> Look at what Prego did to Ragú. For years Ragú was the leading brand of spaghetti sauce with a market share in excess of 50 percent. Like Emery Air Freight, Ragú had many different varieties.
>
> So what did Prego do? The brand narrowed its focus to one variety, “thick” spaghetti sauce. With this one type of sauce Prego won 27 percent of the market. Prego owns the word “thick” in the mind of the spaghetti sauce buyer.
>
> ...
>
> ... “Bloomberg” is a terminal that provides analytical tools as well as instant business news and stock prices. Bloomberg LP was the first company to introduce a device that would help money managers contrast and compare financial data.
>
> ...
>
> Until science figures out a way to replace human brain tissue with silicon chips, it’s a physical impossibility for most brands to go beyond a single word. Consider yourself lucky if your brand can own a word like “safety” or “driving” or “thick” or “overnight.”
> 
> Many marketers know this and they still look to expand the meanings of their brands. Why?
>
> Growth. They feel trapped in their present positions. They want to grow, so they think they have no choice but to expand their brands.
>
> ***But what works is not expanding the brand, but expanding the market***. In other words, instead of moving from overnight to two- or three-day delivery, Federal Express expanded the market for overnight delivery.
>
> ...
>
> Mercedes built the market for expensive cars by using prestige as its strategy. But you need subtlety in dealing with a word like “prestige.” Its connotations may work in brand building, but the word itself does not. It’s not that people aren’t dying to own prestige brands. They just hate to admit it.
>
> To be successful in branding a “prestige” product or service, you need to do two things:
>  1. You need to make your product or service more expensive than the competition.
>  2. You need to find a code word for prestige.
>
> ...
>
> If “what is the size of the market?” is the first question your company asks itself, then you are taking the wrong road to success.
>
> Ask not what percentage of an existing market your brand can achieve, ask how large a market your brand can create by narrowing its focus and owning a word in the mind.

### 6. The Law of Credentials

> **The crucial ingredient in the success of any brand is its claim to authenticity.**
>
> ...
>
> When Coca-Cola first made this claim customers instantly responded. “Yes,” they agreed. “Coke is the real thing. Everything else is an imitation.”
>
> Leadership is the most direct way to establish the credentials of a brand. Coca-Cola, Hertz, Heinz, Visa, and Kodak all have credentials because they are widely perceived to be the leading brands in their categories. When you don’t have the leading brand, your best strategy is to create a new category in which you can claim leadership.
>
> Which is what Polaroid did when it became the leader in the new category of instant photography. Yet when it tried to tackle Kodak in conventional photographic film, Polaroid failed miserably.
>
> Many marketers attribute Polaroid’s failure to the fact that the brand couldn’t be “stretched” from instant to conventional 35mm film. While true, this conclusion doesn’t really describe the dynamics involved.
>
> The simple fact is that Polaroid has no credentials in conventional 35mm film. Why buy your conventional film from Polaroid when Kodak is the expert in this category? Only if you want instant film will you buy Polaroid; it’s the company that knows instant photography.
> 
> A number of years ago, Patrick Sullivan (currently CEO of SalesLogix) arrived in our offices with a software product called Act. “What does Act do?” we asked.
>
> “Everything,” Pat replied. “Act keeps track of your calendar, your correspondence, your mailing lists, and your expense accounts. Act literally does everything.”
>
> Not a good direction. We wanted to find the one thing we could use to build a new category. After much discussion the group decided that the new software could best be described as “contact” software. In other words, software designed for salespeople and others who do contact work.
>
> “The largest-selling contact software” became the credentials for the new brand. Everywhere the brand name was used, the credentials were also used. In publicity, advertising, brochures, letterheads, calling cards. Even on the product box itself.
>
> Today, Act has 70 percent of the contact software market and has become the dominant brand in the category.
>
> ...
>
> Never forget leadership. No matter how small the market, don’t get duped into simply selling the benefits of the category early in the branding process.
>
> There are also the long-term benefits of leadership. Because once you get on top, it’s hard to lose your spot. A widely publicized study of twenty-five leading brands in twenty-five different product categories in the year 1923 showed that twenty of the same twenty-five brands are still the leaders in their categories today. In seventy-five years only five brands lost their leadership.
>
> ...
> 
> As the category matures, customers become more adventuresome and more willing to try different brands that offer seemingly unique advantages. Leaders often have to write off the more sophisticated customers who will go out of their way not to buy the leading brand.
>
> Write them off. You can’t appeal to everybody.
>
> Not all brands can be leaders, although every category offers a wealth of possibilities. Take beer, for example. Here are some categories for beer leadership credentials:
>
> - The leading beer
> - The leading light beer
> - The leading imported beer
> - The leading microbrew
> - The leading ice beer
> - The leading high-priced beer
> - The leading Mexican beer
> - The leading German beer
> - The leading Canadian beer
> - The leading Japanese beer
>
> For almost all of the hundreds of companies we have worked with around the world, we have found some credentials that could be exploited. If not, we created the credentials by inventing a new category.
>
> You see credentials at work in everyday life. How many times have you walked away from a new restaurant because it was almost empty? Most people prefer to wait for a table at a restaurant that is crowded, rather than eat in an empty one. If this place was really good (goes the thinking), there would be a line out the door.
>
> That’s the power of credentials.

### 7. The Law of Quality

> **Quality is important, but brands are not built by quality alone.**
> 
> ...
>
> ... There is almost no correlation between success in the marketplace and success in comparative testing of brands—whether it be taste tests, accuracy tests, reliability tests, durability tests, or any other independent, objective third-party testing of brands.
>
> In a recent ranking of sixteen brands of small cars, the number-one brand in quality was twelfth in sales. The number-two brand in quality was ninth in sales. The number-three brand in quality was dead last in sales. If quality translates into sales, the numbers don’t seem to show it.
> 
> ...
> 
> Quality, or rather the perception of quality, resides in the mind of the buyer. If you want to build a powerful brand, you have to build a powerful perception of quality in the mind.
>
> As it happens, the best way to build a quality perception in the mind is by following the laws of branding.
>
> Take the law of contraction. What happens when you narrow your focus? You become a specialist rather than a generalist. And a specialist is generally perceived to know more, in other words to have “higher quality,” than a generalist.
>
> ...
>
> ... But a weak brand can in fact be a sales success if it competes with even weaker brands. Take General Electric. Most of GE’s competitors are also omnibus brands like Westinghouse, General Motors, Siemens, and United Technologies. Who wins when two weak brands compete? A weak brand that just happens to be less weak than its competitor.
>
> ...
>
> Another factor in building a high-quality perception is having a high price. Rolex, Häagen-Dazs, Mercedes-Benz, Rolls-Royce, Montblanc, Dom Pérignon, Chivas Regal, Absolut, Jack Daniel’s, and Ritz-Carlton are all brands that benefit from their high price.
>
> High price is a benefit to customers. It allows the affluent customer to obtain psychic satisfaction from the public purchase and consumption of a high-end brand.
>
> ...
>
> Conventional wisdom often advocates marketing a high-quality product at a comparable price. This is usually what is meant by a quality strategy. This is what Ford means when it says, “Quality is Job 1.” Everything else, including price, is equal, but we are going to win by having the better-quality automobile.
> 
> Not likely. Quality is a nice thing to have, but brands are not built by quality alone.
> 
> A better strategy in a sea of similar products with similar prices is to deliberately start with a higher price. Then ask yourself, What can we put into our brand to justify the higher price?
>
> - Rolex made its watches bigger and heavier with a unique-looking wristband.
> - Callaway made its drivers oversized.
> - Montblanc made its pens fatter.
> - Häagen-Dazs added more butterfat.
> - Chivas Regal let its Scotch whisky age longer.
>
> To build a quality brand you need to narrow the focus and combine that narrow focus with a better name and a higher price.

### 8. The Law of the Category

> **A leading brand should promote the category, not the brand.**
>
> According to the law of contraction a brand becomes stronger when you narrow its focus. What happens when you narrow the focus to such a degree that there is no longer any market for the brand?
>
> This is potentially the best situation of all. What you have created is the opportunity to introduce a brand-new category.
>
> - What was the market for an expensive vodka before Stolichnaya? Almost nothing.
> - What was the market for expensive cars before Mercedes-Benz? Almost nothing.
> - What was the market for home pizza delivery before Domino’s Pizza? Almost nothing.
>
> There’s a paradox here. Branding is widely perceived as the process of capturing a bigger share of an existing market. Which is what is usually meant when the newly appointed CEO says, “We have to grow the business.”
>
> Yet the most efficient, most productive, most useful aspect of branding has nothing to do with increasing a company’s market share.
> 
> The most efficient, most productive, most useful aspect of branding is creating a new category. In other words, narrowing the focus to nothing and starting something totally new.
>
> That’s the way to become the first brand in a new category and ultimately the leading brand in a rapidly growing new segment of the market.

Wow! Imagine that this was written in 1998 and, yet, in 2023, many companies and entrepreneurs still don't get this paradox.

> You knew the Newton was in trouble when Apple ran big advertisements with the headline, “What is Newton?”
>
> Better to answer that question before you launch a new brand rather than after.
>
> Customers don’t really care about new brands, they care about new categories. They don’t care about Domino’s; they care about whether or not their pizza will arrive in thirty minutes. They don’t care about Callaway; they care about whether or not an oversize driver will cut strokes off their golf scores. They don’t care about Prince; they care about whether or not an oversize racquet will improve their tennis game.
>
> ...
>
> What happens when competition appears, as it inevitably does? Most category leaders just can’t wait to shift into a brand-building mode. That’s a mistake. Leaders should continue to promote the category, to increase the size of the pie rather than their slice of the pie.
>
> Boston Chicken was a huge hit when it opened its doors. It was the first fast-food restaurant to focus on rotisserie chicken for the take-home dinner market. But instead of continuing to promote rotisserie chicken, it changed its name to Boston Market, added turkey, meatloaf, and ham to the menu, and fell into trouble.

In this case, you create a new brand.

> The rightful share of a leading brand is never more than 50 percent. There’s always room for a second brand and a passel of lesser brands. Instead of fighting competitive brands, a leader should fight competitive categories.
> 
> “Take the bus,” category leader Greyhound once said, “and leave the driving to us.”
>
> ...
> 
> Contrary to popular belief, what would help EatZi’s (and every category pioneer) is competition. Even though the leader’s market share might decline, the rise of competitive brands can stimulate consumer interest in the category.
>
> One of Polaroid’s biggest mistakes was forcing Kodak out of the instant-photography market. Although it won a few million in its lawsuit, Polaroid effectively removed a competitor that could have greatly expanded the market. (A Coke/Pepsi advertising war benefits both brands. It attracts media attention, which expands the consumer’s interest in the cola category.)

### 9. The Law of the Name

> **In the long run a brand is nothing more than a name.**
>
> The most important branding decision you will ever make is what to name your product or service. Because in the long run a brand is nothing more than a name.
>
> ...
>
> In the short term, a brand needs a unique idea or concept to survive. It needs to be first in a new category. It needs to own a word in the mind.

I'm thinking people don't really use the word 'Shillings' everyday anymore. It's an old word that can be given new meaning. I'm sticking with it.

> We don’t mean literally a no-brand strategy. A company might own brands that might be called brands from a legal point of view in the sense that their names are registered trademarks. But the company’s strategies are based on building the better product or service, and the brand names it uses to accompany these products have little power in the prospect’s mind.

Sometimes, doing all that is necessary to bring new association in prospect's mind is important.

> What’s a Mitsubishi? Sixteen of the one hundred largest Japanese companies market products and services under the Mitsubishi name. Everything from automobiles to semiconductors to consumer electronics. From space equipment to transport systems.
>
> What’s a Matsushita? Same problem as Mitsubishi. Eight of the one hundred largest Japanese companies market products and services under the Matsushita name. Everything from electric equipment to electronic products and components. From batteries to refrigeration equipment.
>
> What’s a Mitsui? Same problem as Matsushita. Eight of the one hundred largest Japanese companies market products and services under the Mitsui name.
>
> Compare Japan with the United States. In a recent year, the top hundred companies in the United States had sales of $3.2 trillion. In the same year, the top hundred companies in Japan had sales of $2.6 trillion. Not that much difference.

Interesting. I only know Mitsubishi, on this side of the world, for building cars. But it gets more interesting in Korea.

> Korea is in even worse shape. In a recent year, the sixty-three largest Korean companies had sales of $409 billion, but had a combined net loss of 0.4 percent of sales.
>
> Take Hyundai, for example. This $71 billion Korean chaebol brags about a “chips to ships” strategy. Hyundai makes microprocessors, telecommunications satellites, passenger cars, commercial vehicles, subways, high-speed trains, turnkey engineering and construction projects, supertankers, and LNG carriers, among other products. All under the Hyundai name.
> 
> Hyundai makes everything except money.
>
> ...
>
> Brands are not just something to think about at marketing meetings. Brands are the essence of the company itself. A company’s very existence depends on building brands in the mind. And so does a country’s.

### 10. The Law of Extensions

> **The easiest way to destroy a brand is to put its name on everything.**
> 
> ...
> 
> This plethora of line extensions, in our opinion, is the reason for the increased demands from retailers for trade promotions, slotting fees, and return privileges.
> 
> According to industry experts, power has been shifting from manufacturers to retailers. The primary reason is line extension. With so many products to choose from, retailers can force manufacturers to pay for the privilege of getting their products on the shelf. If one company won’t pay, the retailer can always find another company that will.
> 
> When your customers are not exactly rushing out to buy your product, why would you need more brands to satisfy those customers? Logic suggests you would need fewer brands.
> 
> But that’s customer logic. Manufacturer logic is different. If volume is going nowhere, the manufacturer concludes it needs more brands to maintain or increase sales. When a category is increasing in sales, there are opportunities for new brands, but manufacturer logic suggests they’re not needed. “We are doing great, we don’t need any more brands.”
> 
> One reason 90 percent of all new brands are line extensions is that management measures results with the wrong end of the ruler. It measures only the success of the extension. It never measures the erosion of the core brand.
> 
> And it’s not just the erosion, it’s also the lost opportunities. Big powerful brands should have market shares approaching 50 percent, like Coca-Cola, Heinz, Pop-Tarts, Jell-O, and Gerber’s. But it’s hard to find more than a few such brands. Most big brands have been line-extended to death.
>
> ...
> 
> Who drinks Diet Coke and Diet Pepsi? Do you really suppose that these diet cola drinkers used to drink beer, ginger ale, or orange juice? We don’t.
>
> Diet Coke comes out of Coca-Cola’s hide. Sure, the diet cola market has boomed, thanks to the public’s interest in low-calorie products. But what Coca-Cola should have done was launch a second brand.
> 
> Actually it did. After the success of Diet Pepsi, Coca-Cola launched Tab. And Tab was doing quite well. The day Diet Coke was introduced, Tab was leading Diet Pepsi in market share by about 32 percent.
>
> Now which is the better name: Diet Pepsi or Tab? If line extension is the superior way to build a brand, why did Tab lead Diet Pepsi by nearly a third?
>
> ...
> Many manufacturers are their own worst enemies. What are line extensions like _light_, _clear_, _healthy_, and _fat-free_ actually telling you? That the regular products are not good for you.
>
> ...
>
> Let sleeping brands lie. Before you launch your next line extension, ask yourself what customers of your current brand will think when they see the line extension.

### 11. The Law of Fellowship

> **In order to build the category, a brand should welcome other brands.**
>
> ...
>
> Customers respond to competition because choice is seen as a major benefit. If there is no choice, customers are suspicious. Maybe the category has some flaws? Maybe the price is too high? Who wants to buy a brand if you don’t have another brand to compare it with?
> 
> ...
>
> Instead of welcoming competition, companies often feel threatened because they believe that future market shares will be based on the merits of the individual brands. An even playing field is not what most companies want. They want an unfair advantage, a playing field tilted to their side. Therefore, they think, let’s try to drive out competitors before they get too established.
> 
> In the process, however, they fall victim to the laws of branding. Expansion, line extensions, and other strategies that broaden a brand’s appeal will ultimately weaken the brand.
> 
> ...
>
> Of course, customers can have too much choice. The more brands, the more flavors, the more varieties, the more confusion in the category. And the lower the per capita consumption.
> 
> For each category, two major brands seem to be ideal. Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola in cola, for example. Listerine and Scope in mouthwash. Kodak and Fuji in photographic film. Nintendo and PlayStation in video games. Duracell and Energizer in appliance batteries.
> 
> When there is too much choice, consumption suffers. Take wine, for example. In California alone, there are more than 1,000 wineries and 5,000 brands. Wine Spectator magazine publishes an annual issue with rankings of some 24,000 individual wines. (If you drank a bottle a day, it would take you more than sixty-five years to run through the lot. Then you would probably be too old to remember which wine you liked the best.)
> 
> With all that choice, you might think that Americans drink a lot of wine. But we don’t. The per capita consumption of wine in the United States is one tenth that of France and one ninth that of Italy. Even the average German drinks three and a half times as much wine as the average American.
> 
> ...
> 
> In any large city, you can see the law of fellowship in action. Similar businesses tend to congregate in the same neighborhood. In New York City, for example, you will find the garment district on Seventh Avenue, the financial district on Wall Street, the diamond district on Forty-seventh Street, advertising agencies on Madison Avenue, theaters on Broadway, theme restaurants on West Fifty-seventh Street, and art galleries in SoHo.
>
> ...
>
> Your brand should welcome healthy competition. It often brings more customers into the category.
> 
> And remember, no brand can ever own the entire market (unless of course it is a government-sanctioned monopoly).
> 
> Realistically, how much market share can the dominant brand achieve? Our research indicates that 50 percent is about the upper limit.
> 
> Federal Express has a 45 percent share of the domestic overnight package delivery market. Coca-Cola has a 50 percent share of the domestic cola market. For market shares higher than 50 percent, you need to consider launching multiple brands. Not just line extensions, but separate individual brands.

### 12. The Law of the Generic

> **One of the fastest routes to failure is giving a brand a generic name.**
>
> ...
> 
> In the past, companies thought they needed big, scopy, generic names. And the brand name was almost always the company name. (Today such an approach might produce the General Global Corp.) And yet, this naming strategy clearly worked. Why?
>
> ...
> 
> Witness the shift from generic (or general) names to specific names: Nabisco, Alcoa, NBC, GE, ABC, IBM.
>
> There are many national biscuit companies, but only one Nabisco. There are many aluminum companies in America, but only one Alcoa. There are many national broadcasting companies, but only one NBC.
>
> ...
> 
> But the vast majority of brand communication takes place verbally, not visually. The average person spends nine times as much time listening to radio and television than he or she does reading magazines and newspapers.
>
> ...
> 
> It dropped McAfee, the only “name name” it owned in favor of two generics: Network Associates. It knew it had a name problem so it spent $10 million on the company’s first television campaign, including more than a million for a Super Bowl spot.
>
> As those thirty seconds flew by, did the viewer hear the words “network associates” or “Network Associates”? Generic names disappear into the ether. Only brand names register in the mind.
>
> ...
> 
> Budget is a powerful brand name for a car-rental service. The word suggests that it rents cars at low prices. Low-Cost Car Rental is not a good brand name.
> 
> ...
> 
> Some genius took the name of a specific office product and used it out of context to come up with Staples, an effective brand name for an office-supplies company. The double entendre is particularly powerful. “Buy your office staples from Staples.”
> 
> ...
> 
> Sometimes you can carve out a brand name by cutting a generic in half. This often has the further advantage of creating a short, distinctive, easy-to-remember brand name. Intelligent Chip Company is a lousy brand name, but Intel Corp. is terrific.
> 
> “Intelligent Chip inside” is a lousy advertising slogan. All computers have intelligent chips inside, but only the top-of-the-line products have “Intel inside.”
> 
> ...
>
> The mind doesn’t deal in letters or words. It deals in sounds. You can capitalize all you want, but a generic word is a generic word in the mind, no matter how you spell it.
> 
> Sometimes a company gets lucky. The line extension Vaseline Intensive Care skin lotion became the number-one hand lotion brand because the customer inadvertently treated Intensive Care as a brand name, not a descriptive generic name.
> 
> How do we know this to be true? Because customers call the product Intensive Care. “Hand me the Intensive Care.”

### 13. The Law of the Company

> **Brands are brands. Companies are companies. There is a difference.**
> 
> Nothing causes as much confusion in the branding process as the proper use of a company name.
>  - Should the company name dominate the brand name? For example: Microsoft dominates Microsoft Word.
>  - Should the brand name dominate the company name? For example: Tide dominates Procter & Gamble.
>  - Or should they be given equal weight? For example: Gillette Sensor.

Understanding that brand has much to do with perception and the psychology of customers, I do not see why customers need to know the company name.

> Brand names should almost always take precedence over company names. Consumers buy brands, they don’t buy companies. So when a company name is used alone as a brand name (GE, Coca-Cola, IBM, Xerox, Intel), customers see these names as brands.
>
> When you combine a company name with a brand name in a clear and consistent fashion, the brand name is the primary name and the company name is seen as the secondary name: General Motors Cadillac.
>
> Simple observation will demonstrate how seldom customers will use a company name . . . when they have been given a viable brand name to use. “How do you like my new Cadillac?”
> 
> Nobody says, “How do you like my new General Motors luxury car?”
>
> ...
> 
> When customers feel they have to use both your company name and your brand name together, you usually have a branding problem.
>
> ...
> 
> _But a case can be made for the middle way. Some of today’s more sophisticated, discriminating customers might like to know who makes a particular brand. They won’t, however, use both names together. Nobody calls an Acura a “Honda Acura.” Or a Lincoln a “Ford Lincoln.”_
> 
> _Furthermore, there is often interest in the trade (which includes retailers and distributors) about the company behind a brand. For example, whom do we order Tide from?_
>
> For many brands one answer is to put the company name in small type above the brand name. Customers who are strongly motivated to use only the brand name will hardly notice the company name. Yet the trade and today’s more sophisticated customers will be able to easily find the name of the company behind the brand.
> 
> _The danger, of course, lies inside the corporation. With this branding strategy, you tend to get inundated with suggestions like, “Why can’t we make the corporate name larger? We’re wasting all these opportunities to promote our stock, improve employee relationships, build a better relationship with the trade.” (On second thought, maybe you should leave the company name off the package entirely.)_
>
> Look what happened at Gillette. Both the Trac II and the Atra razors were marketed with the company name the same size as the brand names.
> 
> Not a good idea. The brand name should dominate the company name.
> 
> With the Mach 3, Gillette has returned to basics. The Mach 3 name dominates.
> 
> The brand itself should be the focus of your attention. If you have to use the company name, use it. But do so in a decidedly secondary way.

Here. I'm thinking. If when running a successful company with a successful brand and a new product idea comes up, then the best way forward would be to register a new company with a catchy brand name.

### 14. The Law of Subbrands

> **What branding builds, subbranding can destroy.**
> 
> ...
> 
> Customer research at Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza produced what you might have expected: “It’s a nice hotel, but it’s a little expensive for a Holiday Inn.” The company finally got the message and is in the process of cutting the megabrand connection. From now on, the hotels will be known as Crowne Plaza, period.
>
> A Cadillac dealership is the last place in the world where you would look for a small car. First they tried Cimarron, which went nowhere and was eventually dropped. Naturally, Cadillac didn’t give up. Its latest small-car incarnation is called the Cadillac Catera.
> 
> ...
>
> Customers have a cornucopia of choice. Subbranders assume otherwise. Why would a customer expect Holiday Inn to have an upscale hotel? Wouldn’t the customer more likely try Hilton, Hyatt, or Marriott first? Why spend all that money and still stay at a Holiday Inn! The thinking is, If I am forking out the big bucks, I want to stay with a top hotel brand.
>
> ...
>
> Subbranding is an inside-out branding strategy that tries to push the core brand into new directions. It captures management’s attention because of what it promises, not necessarily because of what it delivers.
>
> The essence of a brand is some idea or attribute or market segment you can own in the mind. Subbranding is a concept that takes the brand in exactly the opposite direction. Subbranding destroys what branding builds.
>
> Branding concepts that are not driven by the marketplace are going to go nowhere. Subbranding, masterbranding, and megabranding are not customer-driven concepts. They have no meaning in the minds of most consumers.
>
> Think simple. Think like a customer and your brand will become more successful.

### 15. The Law of Siblings

> **There is a time and a place to launch a second brand.**
>
> ...
> 
> Take the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. For more than a hundred years, Wrigley has dominated the chewing gum market, generating billions of dollars of profits. But not with one brand. Today Wrigley has a family of brands.
>  - Big Red (a cinnamon-flavored brand)
>  - Doublemint (a peppermint-flavored brand)
>  - Extra (a sugar-free brand)
>  - Freedent (a stick-free brand)
>  - Juicy Fruit (a fruit-flavored brand)
>  - Spearmint (a spearmint-flavored brand)
>  - Winterfresh (a breath-freshener brand)
>
> The key to a family approach is to make each sibling a unique individual brand with its own identity. Resist the urge to give the brands a family look or a family identity. You want to make each brand as different and distinct as possible.
>
> The Wrigley approach is not perfect. Wrigley’s first three brands (Juicy Fruit, Spearmint, and Doublemint) are too much like line extensions. They need the Wrigley name to support their generic brand names. Big Red, Extra, Freedent, and Winterfresh, however, can stand on their own, each as totally separate brands.
>
> ...
> 
> Time Inc. became the world’s largest magazine publisher, not by launching line extensions of its core brand, but by launching totally separate publications. Like Wrigley, Time Inc. has seven publishing powerhouses.
>
>  1. Time
>  1. Fortune (not Time for Business)
>  1. Life (not Time for Pictures)
>  1. Sports Illustrated (not Time for Sports)
>  1. Money (not Time for Finances)
>  1. People (not Time for Celebrities)
>  1. Entertainment Weekly (not Time for Entertainment)
>
> ...
> 
> The strength of a brand lies in having a separate, unique identity—not in being associated in the mind with a totally different category.
>
> Having a totally separate identity in the mind doesn’t mean creating a totally separate organization to handle each brand. Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company doesn’t have seven separate manufacturing plants or seven separate sales organizations. It has seven brands and one company, one sales force, one marketing organization.
>
> ...
> 
> A sibling strategy requires more top-management supervision, not less. The urgent, long-term need is to maintain the separation between the brands, not to make them all alike. Human instincts work in the opposite direction. Result: All General Motors cars ended up with fins.
> 
> Nor is there a need to tag the corporate identity on every brand. Does the customer buy a Lexus because it’s made by Toyota? Or in spite of the fact that it’s made by Toyota?
> 
> The customer buys a Lexus. That’s the power of the Lexus brand. The corporate connection is irrelevant.
>
> ...
>
> A family of sibling brands is not a strategy for every corporation. But where it is appropriate, a sibling strategy can be used to dominate a category over the long term.

### 16. The Law of Shape

> **A brand's logotype should be designed to fit the eyes. Both eyes.**
>
> ...
>
> This horizontal shape will provide the maximum impact for your logotype. This is true wherever the logotype is used: on buildings, brochures, letterheads, advertisements, or calling cards.
>
> This horizontal bias is especially important when a logotype is used on a retail establishment. In the neon jungle, a vertical logotype is at a severe disadvantage. The Arby’s cowboy-hat logo is an example of the penalty of verticality.
> 
> Of equal importance to shape is legibility. Logotype designers often go way overboard in picking a typeface to express the attribute of a brand rather than its ability to be clearly read.
>
> On the other hand, if the typeface is virtually illegible, the logotype has little or no meaning in the consumer’s mind. Not because of the typeface used, but because the prospect can’t read the words. Legibility is the most important consideration in selecting a typeface used in a logotype.
>
> ...
>
> It’s the Nike name that gives meaning to the Swoosh symbol. The Swoosh symbol doesn’t give much meaning to the Nike brand. After a symbol has been associated with a name for a long period of time, the symbol can represent the name, through a kind of “rebus” effect. But it’s still the name that carries the brand’s power.
>
> ...
>
> Compare Shell with Mobil. Shell uses a shell trademark on its gasoline stations without the word “Shell.” Mobil uses a logotype with blue letters and a red “O” to spell the word “Mobil.”
>
> Is the Shell approach superior to the Mobil approach? We think not. The best you can say is that the Shell approach works, thanks to a simple name and an easy-to-translate simple visual. But what are the advantages of the Shell approach?
>
> Very few. And there are some disadvantages. As people grow up and new prospects come into the marketplace, how will they learn that the yellow symbol means “Shell”? Especially if the prospect doesn’t know that Shell is a brand name for a gasoline.
>
> A great deal of effort has gone into creating elaborate symbols for use in logotypes. Crests, shields, coats of arms, and other heraldic symbols have poured out of America’s design shops in great profusion. For the most part, these efforts are wasted. The power of a brand name lies in the meaning of the word in the mind. For most brands, a symbol has little or nothing to do with creating this meaning in the mind.
>
> There are only a handful of simple symbols that make effective trademarks. (The Mercedes three-pointed star is one of them.) At this late date, if history hasn’t willed you one of these simple symbols, it’s probably too late to create one on your own.

### 17. The Law of Color

> **A brand should use a color that is the opposite of its major competitor's.**
>
> Another way to make a brand distinctive is with color. But color is not an easy attribute to work with. There are thousands of words to choose from in order to create a unique name, but only a handful of colors.
>
> There are five basic colors (red, orange, yellow, green, and blue) plus the neutral colors (black, white, and gray). It’s best to stick to one of these five primary colors rather than an intermediate or mixed color. But which color?
>
> Keep in mind that all colors are not created equal in the eye of the beholder. Colors on the red end of the spectrum are focused slightly behind the retinas in your eyes. Therefore, a red color appears to move toward your eyes while you’re looking at it.
> 
> Colors on the blue end of the spectrum, on the other hand, are focused slightly in front of the retinas in your eyes. A blue color appears to move away from you.
> 
> Because of these physical reasons, red is the color of energy and excitement. Red is an in-your-face color. Which is why red is the dominant color in 45 percent of all national flags. (Blue is a distinct second. Blue dominates in less than 20 percent of all flags.)
> 
> Blue is the opposite of red. Blue is peaceful and tranquil. Blue is a laid-back color.
>
> In the world of brands, red is a retail color used to attract attention. Blue is a corporate color used to communicate stability. For example, Coca-Cola red and IBM blue.
>
> The other primary colors are in between. Orange is more like red than blue. Green is more like blue than red.
>
> Yellow is the neutral color. But because it is in the middle of the range of wavelengths your eyes can detect, yellow is also the brightest color. (Its brightness is the reason yellow is often used to communicate “caution,” as in yellow lights, yellow lines, yellow signs, etc.)
> 
> Over the years, some colors have become identified with various attributes, occasions, and movements.
>
>  - White is the color of purity (as in a white wedding gown).
>  - Black is the color of luxury (as in Johnnie Walker Black Label).
>  - Blue is the color of leadership (as in the blue ribbon award to the winner of a horse show).
>  - Purple is the color of royalty (as in the expression “born to the purple”).
>  - Green is the color of the environment and health (as in Greenpeace, Healthy Choice, and SnackWell’s).
>
> When selecting a color for a brand or a logo, managers usually focus on the mood they want to establish rather than the unique identity they want to create. And while mood or tone can be important, other factors should override a choice based on mood alone.
> 
> ...
>
> There is a powerful logic for selecting a color that is the opposite of your major competitors. When you ignore this law of color, you do so at your own risk.
>
> ...
> 
> Be the opposite. Kodak is yellow, so Fuji is green.
>
> ...
> 
> While a single color is almost always the best color strategy for a brand, sometimes you can make a case for multiple colors. Federal Express, the first overnight-package-delivery company, wanted its packages to stand out on the recipient’s desk. So it combined the two most shocking colors it could find: orange and purple.
>
> Color consistency over the long term can help a brand burn its way into the mind. Look at what yellow has done for Caterpillar, brown for United Parcel Service, red for Coca-Cola, the green jacket for the Masters golf tournament, and blue for IBM.
>
> What blue did for Big Blue, a unique color can do for your big brand.

### 18. The Law of Borders


## The 11 Immutable Laws of Internet Branding

### 1. The Law of Either/Or

> Does brand familiarity in the “outernet” foster interest in the Internet? A study by Forrester Research among sixteen- to twenty-two-year-olds says “no.” According to the Cambridge, Massachusetts–based firm, “Some of the hottest brands in the off-line world have no online value.”
>
> ...
>
> As a matter of fact, the magazine is not a good analogy for the Internet. Nor for that matter are radio, television, books, or newspapers. The Internet is the Internet, a unique new medium with its own unique new needs and requirements. Building a brand on the Internet cannot be done by using traditional brand-building strategies.
>
> On the Internet, you should start the brand-building process by forgetting everything you have learned in the past and asking yourself these two questions:
> 1. What works on the Internet?
> 2. What doesn’t work on the Internet?
>
> ...
>
> ***The Web should simplify many ordinary business transactions***. If you want to subscribe to Newsweek, once you are connected to your service provider you should be able to type www.newsweek.com into your browser, go to the Newsweek site, and subscribe. Inputting your name, address, and credit card or bank account number should do it. No cards falling out of the magazine, no stamps, no trips to the post office, no phone calls.
>
> ...
>
> Procter & Gamble is using the Web to sell beauty products, but not with Oil of Olay or any of its other brand names. Instead, P&G has created a new name (Reflect.com) and a new strategy. The site will allow consumers to “personalize” their selection of beauty products.
>
> How can you tell whether the Internet is a business or a medium for your brand? You need to ask yourself the following questions:
>
> 1. Is the brand tangible or intangible?
>
>    For tangible products the Internet tends to be an information medium. For intangible products, a business. Intangible products that are particularly appropriate for Internet branding include banking, insurance, stock brokerage, and the like.
>
>    We expect financial services of all types to move to the Net. The savings can be substantial. American Express estimates that it saves $1.00 every time a cardholder checks a balance on the Web rather than over the phone.
>
>    Travel is another category that is moving to the Web. In the year 2001, travelers spent $14 billion buying tickets on the Internet, amounting to 14 percent of their total airline spending
>
> 2. Is the brand fashionable or not?
>
>    For fashionable products the Internet tends to be a medium. For other products, a business. Clothing is generally fashionable, while computers are generally not. Where fashion is the primary factor, it’s difficult to imagine much business going to the Web. (Yh. But how about FashionNova and SHEIN?)
>
>    We don’t predict much success for Nordstromshoes.com, even though the site was launched with a $17 million advertising campaign. The commercials are amusing, but the prospect is unlikely to do much shoe buying on the Internet. There are three major questions a shoe site can’t answer. Will they fit? Will they look good on my feet? Are they going to be comfortable?
>
> 3. Is the product available in thousands of variations?
>
>    If so, the Internet tends to be a business. Books, for example. It’s hard for an existing retail establishment to compete in a category with a bewildering array of choices. There’s no way, for example, that a bookstore could stock all the titles available at Amazon.com.
>
>    ...
>
>    Product variation is likely to become a major battleground in an Internet-dominated economy. Excluding food stores, roughly half the people who shop at any given store today walk out without buying anything. The major reason: The store didn’t have in stock the product the customer was looking for.
>
>    If physical stores are your major distribution channel, then you need to reduce the product variety you offer. Compaq’s best response to Dell, for example, would have been to reduce its product line and promote a handful of computer products available off the shelf in retail computer stores. When you make too many variations, you can be sure that the one model the prospect wants won’t be in stock.
>
>    If the Internet is your major distribution channel, then you want to promote the wide range of models, sizes, and colors you have available.
>
> 4. Is low price a significant factor in the brand’s purchase?
>
>    If so, the Internet tends to be a business—eBay.com and Priceline.com, for example.
>
>    The ability of the buyer to quickly check prices on a large number of sites is making the Internet a very price-sensitive medium. There are even sites, like MySimon.com and DealTime.com, that will compare prices among other sites by sending out robots, or “bots,” to check the prices. Heaven help you if you don’t have a competitive price.
>
>    Because of this price pressure, one of the biggest challenges for building a brand on the Net is trying to figure out how to make money. This will be a critical issue for many brands.
>
> 5. Are shipping costs a significant factor as compared to the purchase price?
>
>    If so, the Internet tends to be a medium. Groceries, for example. Webvan has already failed and Peapod.com is struggling. It’s unlikely that any mass-market Internet site will be able to build a successful business and a successful brand selling groceries.
> 
>    The milkman used to deliver fresh milk every morning. We’re sure that many families would like their milk delivered today, but they can’t get it. Why? It’s not economical anymore.
>
>    In the Internet era, are we going to go backward? Is self-service dead? We don’t think so. Yet many marketing experts are saying the opposite. “The grocery store as we know it is going out of business,” said former Procter & Gamble brand manager Doug Hall.
>
>    Futurist Faith Popcorn goes even further. By the year 2010, she predicts, 90 percent of all consumer products will be home-delivered. “They’ll put a refrigerator in your garage and bar code your kitchen. Every week they’ll restock your favorites, without your ever having to reorder. They’ll even pick up your dry cleaning, return your videotapes, whatever you need.”
>
>    The Internet is the biggest technological development of the twentieth century, but let’s not get carried away. Just because something is possible doesn’t make it likely to occur. The grocery business has three strikes against it: 
>     1. high selection costs, that is, the costs involved in picking and packing products in the warehouse 
>     2. high delivery costs 
>     3. low margins. 
>    The average supermarket chain makes 1 or 2 percent net profit on sales.
>
> It’s hard to see how an Internet company could absorb the additional costs involved in picking, packing, and delivery and still make money in a low-margin business. A niche market, to be sure, but not a mainstream brand.
>
> Hope springs eternal. Venture capitalists doled out an astounding $275 million to launch Webvan, an Internet grocery company. In addition, the company managed to hire as its chief executive George Shaheen, the former head of Andersen Consulting (now Accenture).
>
> Some consultants claim that you need both an Internet presence and a retail presence to be successful in the future, the so-called click and mortar strategy. Otherwise, goes the argument, how could you return items you ordered on the Net? That’s one reason some experts have foolishly predicted that Barnesandnoble.com will eventually outsell Amazon.com.
>
> Don’t believe it. People don’t buy things based on how easy they are to return. It’s a factor, of course, but not the primary factor in deciding where to buy. Reputation, selection, and price are far more important. It’s impossible to build a reputation as a store with great selection and low prices if you are schizophrenic, that is, if you have both physical stores and Internet sites. All you are doing is confusing people.
>
> Will Sears.com become a big success? Unlikely.
> 
> No one factor, of course, will determine whether your brand should be a business on the Internet or whether the Net is just another medium to promote your brand. You have to carefully consider all the factors before you decide.
>
> But decide you should before some other brand beats you to the punch.

### 2. The Law of Interactivity

> **Without it, your Website and your brand will go nowhere.**
>
> ...
>
> There is a relationship between television and the Internet. Each is a communications medium. And nothing on earth affects more people in a more powerful way than the introduction of a major new mass-communications medium.
>
> Over the course of human history, there have been five such introductions:
>
> - The book
> - The newspaper, or periodical, which includes magazines
> - Radio
> - Television
> - The Internet
>
> (While the telephone is a communication device and has had a long-lasting effect on people’s lives, it does not possess the characteristics of a mass-communications medium.)
>
> Life gets complicated. The new medium does not replace the old. Rather, the new medium is layered on top of the old media, forever changing and modifying all of the existing media.
>
> - The original mass-communications medium, of course, was the human voice, still an unusually effective way to send a message. Each major medium to follow became powerful in its own right because the medium possessed a unique and highly prized attribute.
> - The book ***multiplied*** the number of people that could be reached by a single individual. Not only could millions of people share ideas and concepts, but these ideas could also easily flow from one generation to the next.
> - The periodical added the attribute of ***news***. Large numbers of people could share news of the latest events in their city or country and eventually the world. In essence, the periodical took the printing process used in book production and greatly sped it up. Where a book could take months to produce (and still does, unfortunately), a newspaper could be produced overnight.
> - Radio added the attribute of the ***human voice***. News and entertainment could be communicated with emotion and personality. A long line of celebrities have used the emotional power of radio to communicate in an exceptionally effective way—Winston Churchill, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Rush Limbaugh, Dr. Laura Schlessinger, and Howard Stern, to name a few.
> - Television added the attribute of ***motion***. Radio, with moving pictures, if you will. Motion pictures, of course, were the precursor of television and still represent much of TV’s content. Movies were, and still are, a powerful, emotional medium, but not a mass-communications medium. You have to go to a theater to see a film when it is first released.
> - And the Internet? What attribute does the Internet bring to the communications table?
>
> If the Internet is going to take its place alongside the other major media, it will be because it exploits a totally new attribute.
>
> We believe that history will rank the Internet as the greatest of all media. And the reason is simple. The Internet is the only mass-communications medium that allows interactivity. (The organization that was formed to promote Internet advertising is called, appropriately enough, the Interactive Advertising Bureau.)
>
> ...
>
> Take advertising, for example. Will traditional advertising be effective on the Internet? Of course not.
> 
> Face the facts. People generally dislike advertising. Why do people love the TV remote control or zapper? It allows quick channel surfing when ads appear.
> 
> With the Internet, your prospects have total control of what they see, read, and hear. Is there any reason to doubt that they won’t turn off your advertising message as soon as it starts?
>
> ...
>
> About the only “interactivity” a newspaper or magazine format allows on the Net is the ability to read stories in any order you choose. But you can do that now with a paper publication. (Many newspaper readers start with the sports section. And Playboy “readers” have been known to start with the centerfold.)
>
> Putting a print magazine on radio or television never worked either. Literally dozens of publications tried to take their successful print periodicals into the radio and television arena. They all failed. Why? The essence of radio is the human voice and the essence of television is motion. A printed piece just sits there; it says nothing and doesn’t move.
>
> ... “The future of media is on-line,” argues Salon publisher Michael O’Donnell. We beg to differ. Print is print; the Internet is the Internet. Trying to combine the two is a serious strategic error.
>
> ...
>
> What works in one medium won’t necessarily work in another. As a matter of fact, chances are great that one medium’s success will be another medium’s failure.
>
> - What newspaper also became a successful magazine brand? None that we know of. (The Wall Street Journal tinkered with a publication called the Wall Street Journal Magazine, but the publication went nowhere.) The only successful newspaper “magazines” are the ones published on Sunday and given away free with the papers. Not exactly our idea of successful brands.
> - What successful television brand also became a successful cable television brand? None that we know of.
>
> The big cable television brands—HBO, ESPN, CNN, A&E, MTV, QVC, Showtime, and Nickelodeon—were not line extensions of broadcast brands. They were new brands created especially for cable.
>
> ...
>
> _Interactivity is not just the ability to select from a menu. (You can do that with a book or a magazine by looking at the index. You can also do that with a phone by pressing numbers. You can do that in a restaurant by asking for the wine list.)_
>
> ***Interactivity is the ability to type in your instructions and have the site deliver the information you requested in the form you requested it.*** Check out Amazon.com. Type in a subject and the site will present a list of books that match your category. You can do the same with authors or a title.
>
> (Instead of asking for the wine list, try asking the sommelier for a list of all French red wines that cost less than $40 a bottle. There’s no interactivity in a restaurant menu and no sense of humor in a sommelier.)
>
> ...
>
> Interactivity is also the ability of a site to handle complex pricing situations almost instantaneously. Take airline tickets, for example. An airline site is able to select from a multitude of fares, flights, dates, and conditions and give you a price on the spot, which you can either accept or decline. They can even recommend a flight schedule that offers the lowest priced fare. (The Cisco site is another Internet operation that makes good use of this on-the-spot pricing technology.)
>
> Interactivity is also the ability of the site to perform a wide variety of tests: intelligence tests, driving tests, occupational aptitude tests, psychological tests. Some of these areas are going to turn into big brands and big businesses.
>
> ...
>
> “Don’t do it that way,” we suggested. “Make the screen interactive. Ask the person a series of questions, then let your computer tell the individual what his or her problem might be.”
> 
> Interactivity is a powerful metaphor for the patient-doctor or the student-teacher relationship.
>
> You visit a medical doctor and describe your symptoms. The doctor diagnoses your problem and prescribes appropriate treatment. This is the kind of interactivity that is possible on the Internet.

### 3. The Law of the Common Name

> **The kiss of death for an internet brand is a common name.**
>
> The most important marketing decision you can make is what to name the product.
>
> So we said in _Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind_, a book published in 1981. So how does the Internet change the role of the brand name?
> 
> In the positioning age, the name was important. In the Internet age, the name is critical.
>
> ...
> 
> Is the Internet really different when it comes to brand names? So far it doesn’t seem to be.
>
> - The leading Internet service provider is not ISP.com. It’s AOL.
> - The leading search engine on the Net is not Searchengine.com. It’s Yahoo!
> - The leading retailer of books on the Net is not Books.com. It’s Amazon.com.
> - The leading job-search site on the Net is not Jobs.com. It’s Monster.com.
> - The leading auction site on the Net is not Auction.com. It’s eBay.
> - The leading airline-ticket bid site on the Net is not Air-lineticketbid.com. It’s Priceline.com.
> - The leading travel site on the Net is not Travel.com. It’s Expedia.com.
> - The leading electronic greeting card is not GreetingCard.com. It’s Bluemountain.com.
>
> ...
>
> A generic name like eTrade is weak. The mind thinks verbally, not visually. E-trade is the name of the category, not the company. Furthermore, you can’t use an asterisk in the actual site name. In order to reach eTrade, you have to type in www.etrade.com.

### 4. The Law of the Proper Name

> **Your name stands alone on the internet, so you'd better have a good one.**
>
> ...
> 
> When you are choosing a brand name for your Website, the first thing to ask yourself is, what’s the generic name for the category? Then that’s the one name you don’t want to use for your site.
> 
> ...
> 
> There are degrees of commonness, of course. “Burger King” is not a totally common name. The Hamburger Place would be a totally common name for a fast-food establishment that features burgers.

Is there too much emphasis on a name?

> There are degrees of properness, too. McDonald’s and Hertz are more “proper” than Time magazine. Time is a common name used out of context to create a proper name.
>
> In the same way, Amazon and Yahoo! are more “proper” than Priceline and eBay, which are common words used out of context. (All distinctions are relative, of course. Even Amazon and Yahoo! can be common words. A yahoo is a brutish creature and an amazon is a tall, vigorous, strong-willed woman.)
> 
> So how “proper” should your Website name be?
> 
> It all depends. First, and most important of all, you want your Website name to be perceived as a proper name. Then hopefully you want your name to be more “proper” than your competitors’. But you also want to consider other factors.
>
> ...
>
> You have to keyboard the Website name into your computer. That’s why the site name should be both short and easy to spell.
>
> Many Internet brands have two strikes against them. They are both too generic and too long. As a result, they are hard to remember and hard to spell.
> 
> ...
> 
> The Internet will force many companies to take another look at their names. This is true even for companies for which the Internet is a medium and not a business. Instead of launching Bah.com, perhaps Booz Allen & Hamilton should have changed the consulting firm’s name to Booz Allen and launched a site called BoozAllen.com.
>
> ...
> 
> Some people have criticized Nissan’s decision to change its U.S. brand from Datsun to Nissan. But from a brand-name point of view, Nissan is the superior name. Although both brand names use six letters, the Datsun name requires six letters of the alphabet and the Nissan name only four. (You hardly hear anyone use the Datsun name anymore.)
>
> ...
> 
> DrugDepot.com might also have been a better name for an Internet drugstore than either Drugs.com or Drugstore.com. It’s alliterative and mimics both the Home Depot and the Office Depot brands in the physical world.
> 
> We helped a company that was planning to sell advertising specialties on the Web come up with the name BrandBuilders.com. (The company sells hats, T-shirts, pens, binders, and other material used in corporate brand-building projects.) Then we agreed with the client to make the name more finger friendly by shortening it to Branders.com.

### 5. The Law of Singularity

> **At all costs you should avoid being second in your category.**
>
> ...
>
> “Nothing comes between me and my Calvins,” Brooke Shields once said. On the Internet nothing comes between the customer and the brand. There are no middlemen, no trade, no real estate developers, no need for leverage against the leader. It’s what Bill Gates calls “friction-free capitalism.”
>
> As a result, the Internet is more like a football game or a political contest. It’s the Law of Singularity. Second place is no place.
> 
> Or as a Nike television commercial once said about the Olympics, “you don’t win silver, you lose gold.” On the Internet, there are no silver or bronze medals.
>
> ...
>
> As some sites get bigger, Mr. Mauboussin argues, they attract more users, and the more users they attract, the richer and more useful they become, attracting more users. This produces a “winner-take-all” outcome: a handful of Websites with almost all the business, and the rest with next to nothing; i.e., the Law of Singularity.
> ...
>
> It doesn’t get any better for a brand buried in the pack. As time goes on, opportunities disappear. The leaders become more fixed in their positions. The longer a brand remains an also-ran, the less likely it is to catch up.
> 
> You can always create an opportunity to be first in a new category by narrowing your focus and by appealing to a segment of the market. It’s as simple as that.
>
> ...
> 
> Instead of duplicating Amazon.com’s site, a better strategy for bn.com would have been to narrow the focus and specialize in a category of books. Business books, for example.
> 
> ...
> 
> Back in the early eighties, IBM was the most powerful company in the world. It made the most money and had the best reputation. IBM was also the first company to introduce a serious 16-bit office personal computer, the IBM PC. So is IBM the leader in PCs today? No, Dell Computer is.
> 
> Unlike IBM, Dell made only one product (personal computers) marketed to one segment (the business community) and sold through one distribution channel (direct to customers). Yet today Dell outsells all other competitors in personal computers. Less often yields much more.
> 
> What Dell did in personal computers, Sun Microsystems did in workstations. By focusing on UNIX workstations, Sun built a powerful brand and a profitable company. You don’t have to have a full line to be successful.

### 6. The Law of Internet Advertising

> **Advertising off the Net will be a lot bigger than advertising on the Net.**
> 
> ...
>
> The average magazine is 60 percent advertising. The average newspaper is 70 percent advertising. But print media are at least partially supported by subscribers. Radio and broadcast television are almost totally supported by the advertising revenues they generate.
>
> ...
> 
> Initially, at least, advertising supported all the commercial Websites. The game plan was simple: “We will give away the content in order to draw traffic, which we can then use to sell advertising.” Exactly the way television and radio currently work.
>
> So we had free browsers, free search engines, free electronic mail, free electronic greeting cards, free Internet access. Even free phone calls and free tax returns.
>
> ...
> 
> This flurry of spending was designed to attract millions of Web visitors who could then be sold off to companies as advertising chattel. As a matter of fact, Internet operators were drooling over the advertising riches soon to fall their way. Forrester Research, a high-tech consulting firm, predicted that advertising spending on the Internet would jump from $2 billion in 1999 to $22 billion in 2004, or 8 percent of total spending. This would mean that the Internet passed the magazine medium and was neck and neck with radio.
>
> ...
> 
> The Internet is interactive. For the first time, the user is in charge, not the owner of the medium. The user can decide where to go, what to look at, and what to read. At many sites, the user can decide how to pick and arrange the material to best fit that user’s needs.
> 
> Advertising is not something that people look forward to. They tend to have an underlying resentment toward advertising. They see it as an intrusion into their space, an invasion of their privacy. “Junk mail” is the popular term for direct-mail advertising.
> 
> ...
>
> But things are changing. Surveys show that the number of people who click on Internet ads has been dropping steadily. According to Nielsen/NetRatings, which tracks the effectiveness of Internet advertising, the click rate in two years dropped from 1.35 percent to 0.3 percent.
>
> ...
>
> Was television a revolutionary new medium? Not really. Did it change your life in any significant way? Not really. Even television’s highly touted home shopping networks didn’t amount to very much. “Radio with pictures” was the judgment of many commentators.
> 
> You can’t have it both ways. The Internet cannot be a revolutionary new medium that operates in exactly the same way as traditional media. Where’s the revolution?
> 
> It’s staring us in the face. The Internet is interactive, and that’s the revolutionary aspect of the medium. For the first time the target is in charge, not the shooter. And what the target definitely does not want is more advertising arrows shot in its direction.
> 
> What people do want is information. Prices, sizes, weights, shipping dates, product comparisons. All presented in an interactive format.

This reminds me of direct marketing and making use of SEO and Content Marketing Strategies throughout the buyer's journey.

It's good to look at the the volume of keywords per month to get an idea of what people are looking for, then set up content and backlinks to get the domain authority to have prospects flow into the product or service that's being offered.

> The reason the Internet has resulted in dramatic increases in outernet advertising has to do with the nature of the human mind.
>
> ...
> 
> An Internet brand suffers from this ability of the mind to forget in two different ways. First, the brand is invisible on a daily basis. Many brands in the physical world benefit from a daily dose of visual reinforcement. Shell, Starbucks, Mobil, Coca-Cola, McDonald’s, Tylenol. There are literally thousands of brands that a person will regularly see on the highways, in the supermarkets, in the drugstores.
>
> An Internet brand, on the other hand, will never suddenly appear before you unless you summon it to do so. Out of sight, out of mind.
>
> Second, an Internet brand (like most brands) suffers from a lack of emotional involvement. Some people fall in love with their brands. Most do not.
> 
> For most people a brand is nothing more than a guarantee of quality and a system for saving time. A way of making sure that the products you buy are decent without having to spend an inordinate amount of time comparing one product with another. Not too many people fall in love with a bottle of Heinz ketchup. Which is why Heinz needs the visibility on supermarket shelves and restaurant tables to keep the brand alive.
>
> ...
>
> The best and most cost-effective way to achieve visibility is with publicity. The first brand in a new Internet category is generally blessed by a blizzard of publicity. Amazon.com, Priceline.com, and Bluemountain.com are prime examples.

Publicity is not advertising.

> Sooner or later, however, many Internet brands will exhaust their publicity potential. At this point they will need to shift their emphasis from publicity to advertising. How else are you going to keep an invisible Internet brand alive?
>
> Publicity first, advertising second is the general rule, and it applies to all branding programs, especially for Internet brands. (A much more detailed discussion of the relationship between publicity and advertising is contained in this book under the Law of Publicity and the Law of Advertising.)
>
> ...
>
> In particular, radio will turn out to be the primary medium for dotcom advertising. Radio’s perceived negative, the lack of visuals, is not a disadvantage for an Internet brand. There are no visual attributes of an Internet brand. No yellow flesh that helps identify Perdue chicken. No radiator grills that do the same for Mercedes-Benz automobiles. The only thing your mind needs to remember to log on to a site is the name.
>
> On the Internet the name is everything. A verbal medium like radio is perfect for driving an Internet name into the mind. Advertising might be vitally important for driving prospects to your site, but once they get there you can forget about using them as human fodder for your advertising messages.
> 
> On the Internet, interactivity is king. Advertising is something that prospects put up with, not something they search out. Interactivity gives them a choice, and in our opinion most people will use this choice to turn off the advertising and turn on the information.
> 
> If you want to build a brand on the Net, forget about trying to attract advertising to your Website.
> 
> ***Make your brand a source of information that prospects cannot find elsewhere. Or a place to buy things they cannot find elsewhere. Or a place to buy things at prices they cannot find elsewhere. Or a place to meet people they cannot meet elsewhere.***
> 
> Don’t make your site an excuse to run advertising that people have already seen in newspapers and magazines or heard on radio or TV.
>
> The Internet is a revolutionary new interactive medium. And when people interact with advertising, they generally turn it off.

### 7. The Law of Globalism

> **The Internet will demolish all barriers, all boundaries, all borders.**
> 
> ...
> 
> Obviously the global market is going to be far more important than the domestic market to the success of almost every American company. It won’t happen overnight, but it will happen.
> 
> ...
> 
> America has always been a melting pot for people, but it has also become a melting pot for products from around the world. With the rise of the Internet, that trend is going to accelerate. The medium is the message.
> 
> ...
> 
> Amazon.com means books in virtually every country of the world. But Books.com means books only in the 6 percent of the world where English is the native language.
> 
> As the world moves toward a global marketplace, won’t companies need to get rid of their national identities and move toward brands with global identities?
>
> Not necessarily. Every brand, including global brands, needs to come from somewhere. In other words, even a global brand needs a national identity.
>  - Burger King is a global brand with an American identity.
>  - Volvo is a global brand with a Swedish identity.
>  - Rolex is a global brand with a Swiss identity.
>
> Like a person, every brand needs to come from somewhere. No matter where the brand is made, marketed, or sold.
>
> ...
> 
> Global brand builders should keep in mind that national identity is a two-edged sword. It can help or hurt your brand, depending upon the category.
>
> American personal computers (built in Asia or with Asian parts) are powerful brands on the global marketplace. American automobiles, no matter where they are built, are mediocre brands everywhere except in America.
> 
> What the global market is telling us is that Americans know how to build computers but don’t know how to build cars. Is it true? It doesn’t matter. When it comes to building brands, perception is more important than reality.
> 
> It’s hard enough to change the perception of a company. It’s impossible for one company to change the perception of a country. When you launch your Internet brand, you should try to match your product or service with your country’s perception.
>  - If we wanted to set up a clothing site on the Internet, we would probably move to Italy and give the site an Italian name.
>  - If we wanted to sell wine on the Net, we would move to France.
>  - If we wanted to sell watches on the Net, we would move to Switzerland.
>
> At least that’s the theory. In practice it’s different. Knowing something about government regulations for wine in France, we would probably choose Chile or Australia instead.
> 
> Don’t overlook the less developed countries of the world. These nations represent tremendous opportunities for global brand builders wherever they are located. In the less developed countries, retail margins are often higher, fewer products are available, and even fewer products are on display.
> 
> ...
> 
> One real barrier to globalism is red tape—taxes, duties, customs forms, and paperwork in general. These are the things that are going to clog up the system and slow it down. But you can’t stop progress. In time, the paper barriers will come down, too.
> 
> ...
> 
> The translation problem can be daunting. How many different languages and/or countries sites should you develop? There are literally thousands of languages in use by the 6 billion people in the world. If you count only the languages used by a significant number of people (say a million or more), there are still 220 different languages. To be a truly global brand, you would need Websites in a substantial percentage of those 220 languages.
> 
> Complicating this decision is the long-term trend toward English as the second language of the world. In many countries, English is already the language of business.
>
> (The Scandinavian region of a European company, for example, will inevitably hold its meetings in English. Representatives from Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark may not understand one another when they speak their native languages, but they all know English.)
> 
> ...
> 
> For high-tech products and services or for brands appealing to the high-end segment of the market, the single-language strategy might be best. Cisco.com is an example.
> 
> For low-tech products and services or for brands appealing to the mainstream market, a multiple-language strategy might be best. Yahoo! en Español is an example.
>
> ...
> 
> Keep in mind, however, a basic tenet of marketing: There is never only one way to do anything. Most people prefer brands, but there is still a market for private labels. Most people prefer specialty stores, but there still is a market for department stores. Most people prefer caffeinated cola, regular beer, and coffee, but there is still a market for decaffeinated cola, light beer, and tea.
>
> ...
> 
> Some people think that globalism will be more of a cultural problem than a language problem. That you have to adapt your product or service to the cultures of the countries you are going to sell in. We disagree.
> 
> How did Coca-Cola, McDonald’s, Levi Strauss, and Subway adapt their brands to local cultural standards? They didn’t, and they greatly benefited because they didn’t.
> 
> The medium is the message. And the message is the homogenization of cultures around the world. That’s what globalism is all about. That’s neither good nor bad. That’s a fact.

### 8. The Law of Time

> **Just do it. You have to be fast. You have to be first. You have to be focused.**
>
> Haste makes waste, but waste is often the most important ingredient in a successful Internet launch.
> 
> If you want to be successful in business . . . in branding . . . in life . . . you have to get into the mind first. Notice we said “mind,” not “marketplace.”
> 
> Being first in the marketplace doesn’t buy you anything except a license to try to get in the mind first. If you throw away that opportunity by being too concerned with getting all the details right, you’ll never get it back. (Perfection in infinite time is worth nothing.)
> 
> What many managers are calling “the first-mover advantage” is a myth. There is no automatic advantage to being the first mover in a category unless you can make effective use of the extra time to work your way into the prospect’s mind.
> 
> A strategy that many large companies use effectively is to quickly jump on an idea developed by a smaller company. With its greater resources, the larger company can often win “the battle of the mind” and create the perception that it was first in the marketplace.
> 
> If you are the CEO of a smaller company, beware. You need to move exceptionally fast. Be quick or be dead. Marketplace Darwinism is survival of the fastest.
> 
> First in the mind doesn’t mean “early” in the mind either. Too many companies are satisfied with being “one of the first” brands in the category. That’s not the same as getting into the mind first and creating the perception that you are the leader.
>  - Yahoo! was introduced in 1994 as the first search engine on the Internet. Today Yahoo! is the leading search engine and second only to AOL in the rankings of most-visited Websites.
>  - eBay was introduced in 1995 as the first auction site on the Internet. Today eBay is by far the leading auction site on the Net, with 264 million items listed for sale last year in some eight thousand product categories.
>  - Amazon.com was introduced in 1995 as the first bookstore on the Internet. Currently the company sells almost $2 billion dollars’ worth of books a year, many times that of its nearest competitor, Barnesandnoble.com. Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com’s founder, was named Time magazine’s person of the year for 1999.
>  - Bluemountain.com was introduced in 1996 as the first electronic greeting-card site. Currently the site receives 10 million unique visitors a month, more than all its competitors combined. The site was sold for $780 million to Excite @ Home, who recently resold it to American Greetings.
>  - Priceline.com was introduced in 1998 as the first company to sell airline tickets on the Internet with a “name-your-own-price” bidding system. Today Priceline.com is far and away the leading site on the Web for discount airline tickets and hotel rooms. Every seven seconds, someone names their own price at Priceline.com.
>
> Five companies, five brands, five Internet “firsts.” And five market leaders whose brands dominate their categories.
>
> Were Yahoo!, eBay, Amazon.com, Bluemountain.com, and Priceline.com literally first in their categories? Amazon.com was not, and we’re not sure about the other four.
>
> ...
> 
> The automobile was “invented” in Germany at about the same time as entrepreneurs in France, England, Italy, and America were working on many of the same self-propelled concepts.
>
> The airplane was “invented” in America, but many French people thought the airplane was invented in France until they read about the Wright brothers accomplishing the same feat several years earlier.
>
> ...
> 
> ... Ideas (and those idle thoughts that initiate them) are a dime a dozen. It takes hard work and, even more important, a sense of urgency to put an idea to work on the Net.
> 
> ***You can’t dawdle. By this we mean endless testing, focus groups, market surveys. This is a particular problem for an Internet brand.***
> 
> ...
> 
> The Internet is moving too fast to be measured. It’s a new industry. Knowledge is scarce. Few people know what they want, what they would use, what they would be willing to pay for . . . until they are given a real-world choice.
> 
> Big companies often fail to exploit new opportunities because they are “perfectionists.” They won’t release a new product, a new service, or an Internet site “until we get it right.”
> 
> Getting it right makes no sense from a branding point of view. Anything worth doing is worth doing in a half-assed way. Anything not worth doing is not worth doing in a perfect way.
> 
> Take Yahoo!, the most valuable brand on the Internet. Yahoo! is basically a search engine. It will find whatever you want to find on the Internet.
> 
> Yahoo! is the top search engine in almost every major country in the world. It generates 40 percent of all search referrals worldwide.
> 
> Did Yahoo! develop its own search-engine technology? No. In order to move rapidly, it outsourced its search-engine technology, first from Open Source, then from AltaVista, before finally settling on Inktomi.
>
> The leading search engine didn’t develop its own search-engine technology? Does that surprise you? It shouldn’t. You don’t win by being better. You win by being first. Yahoo! succeeded because they “rushed the net.”

I think this book needs to revise this Chapter. Google was created 4 years later and is now the best search engine in the world. Google Chrome was invented later than Netscape. So, I'm not too sure about this argument of being first.

> Northern Light Technology LLC was the largest search engine on the Internet, in the sense that it indexed some 330 million Web pages. That’s far more than Yahoo!, Excite, Lycos, or Infoseek. Plus Northern Light compiled the contents of some six thousand full-text sources such as business magazines, trade journals, medical publications, investment databases, and news wires.
> 
> The problem wasn’t the site. The problem was the timing. Northern Light didn’t get turned on until three years after the Yahoo! launch. That’s much too late. Not only was Yahoo! gathering momentum, but the new search site also had to compete with AltaVista, Excite, Infoseek, and Lycos.

Hmmm. But how do you explain Google? (This was written in 1998 when Google was created)

So, I think a point can be made from software development philosophy of avoiding being too perfect before going to market. Once the branding is right and the product is good enough and safe for customers to use, it is time to release the product.

The branding is important where being the leader of a category is concerned if a competitor is already out there. Brand in such a way that customers see that product as a leader in a new category.

### 9. The Law of Vanity

> **The biggest mistake of all is believing you can do anything.**
>
> Success in business doesn’t just show up on the bottom line of the profit-and-loss column; it also goes to the top. Success in business inflates the egos of top management.
>
> ...
> 
> History hasn’t been kind to this type of thinking. Overconfident management has been responsible for most of the marketing disasters of the past decades.
>
> ...
>
> The problem is usually not the new product or service being offered. Xerox may well have had the best computer product on the market. The problem is in the mind of the prospect. “What does a copier company know about computers?”
>
> In other words, the problem is not a product problem, it’s a perception problem. The most difficult problem in business today is trying to change a perception that exists in the mind of a customer or prospect. Once a perception is strongly held in the mind, it can almost never be changed. (Anybody who has ever been married knows the difficulty of changing a perception in another person’s mind.)
>
> ...
> 
> What is terribly confusing is the fact that line extension can work . . . in the short term. But almost never in the long term.
>
> This is especially true if you are the first in a new category. When you are the first, when you dominate a new category, you can be successful in the short term taking the line-extension route. You may pay the price later, but you can easily fool yourself into thinking that you are going in the right direction when you broaden your approach.
>
> Yahoo! became a celebrity brand. In one seventeen-month period, in six thousand different news media, Yahoo! received an astounding forty-five thousand citations, far greater than any other Internet site.
> 
> Nothing succeeds like excess. With enough favorable media mentions, Mussolini Merlot might become a popular brand of Italian wine.
>
> ...
> 
> Apple started as a personal computer hardware company, then moved into software, operating systems, and personal digital assistants. Apple lost its way, its CEO, and almost its entire existence until Steve Jobs retook the reins and refocused Apple on its core business, easy-to-use and “insanely great” personal computers.
>
> But everybody wants to grow, and you can’t blame them. So what should an Internet brand like Amazon.com do? There are five fundamental branding strategies for a leader in any category.
>
> 1. KEEP YOUR BRAND FOCUSED.
>
>    There are more than 22 million dotcom sites registered on the Internet, and you want your site to stand for more than one thing? Amazon.com should stay focused on books and music CDs. After all, the site accounts for just 8 percent of the $25 billion book market in the United States.
>
> 2. INCREASE YOUR SHARE OF THE MARKET.
>
>    The time to think about getting into another business is after you dominate the business you’re already in. Until Amazon.com has at least 25 percent of the book market, it should stick to its knitting. Its short-term strategy should focus on finding ways to increase its 8 percent market share.
>
> 3. EXPAND YOUR MARKET.
>
>    Leaders should figure out how to expand their market, knowing that many of the benefits of a larger market will flow to them. What about book clubs, chat rooms with authors, and other book-building activities, including Amazon-sponsored seminars by famous authors?
>
> 4. GO GLOBAL.
>
>    Sure, the Internet is a worldwide information and communications network already, but Amazon.com’s share of the book market outside the United States is minuscule. (Currently the company sells only 22 percent of its books overseas.)
>
>    Amazon.com should make a major effort to reach customers in the rest of the world. As English becomes the business language of the world, the market for books in English should skyrocket.
>
>    Why stop at English? Amazon.com should take its Internet expertise into all the major languages of the world.
>
>    Thinking often stops at the border. The most successful companies today treat the world as their oyster.
>
> 5. DOMINATE THE CATEGORY.
>
>    For a leading brand, a 25 percent market share should be a conservative goal. With a quarter of the U.S. book market, Amazon.com would rack up sales of $6.3 billion, enough to put the company on the Fortune 500 list, ahead of such companies as Southwest Airlines, Avon Products, Campbell Soup, Sherwin-Williams, Ryder Systems, Nordstrom, Owens Corning, Black & Decker, and Hershey Foods.
>
>    Nothing works in branding as well as market domination. Coca-Cola in cola, Hertz in car rentals, Budweiser in beer, Goodyear in tires, Microsoft in personal computer operating systems, Intel in microprocessors, Cisco in networking equipment, Oracle in database software, Intuit in personal finance software.
>
> ...
> 
> ***Many managers believe it’s only necessary to deliver a better product or service to win. But brands like Coca-Cola, Hertz, Budweiser, and Goodyear are strong not because they have the best product or service (although they might have) but because they are market leaders that dominate their categories.***

### 10. The Law of Divergence

> **Everyone talks about convergence, while just the opposite is happening.**
>
> Whenever a new medium hits town, the cry goes up, “Convergence, convergence. What is this new medium going to converge with?”
> 
> When television hit town, there were stories everywhere about the convergence of TV with magazines and newspapers. You weren’t going to get your magazines in the mail anymore. When you wanted an issue, you would hit the button on your TV set and the issue would be printed out in your living room. (We don’t make these things up. We just report the facts.)
>
> ...
>
> ***The PC, the Internet, and the television set will combine? It will never happen. Technologies don’t converge. They diverge.***
>
> ...
>
> In biology, the law of evolution holds that new species are created by divergence of a single species. Convergence, instead, suggests that the combining of two species will yield a new one.
>
> Invariably in nature you see things divide and not converge. We have hundreds of varieties of dogs and hundreds of varieties of cats, but very few catdogs, or chickenducks, or horsecows.
>
> A company goes against the laws of nature when it tries to build an Internet brand on the convergence concept. “Are you getting three different kinds of electronic messages—voice-mail, e-mail, and fax? Fine, we can fix that for you.”

Hmm. Should analysis and trading be converged?

### 11. The Law of Transformation

> **The Internet revolution will transform all aspects of our lives.**
> 
> ...
> 
> The Internet will affect your business whether you jump on the Web or not. What changes will the Internet bring to your business and your life? The future is always fuzzy, but here are some predictions.
> 
> **1. PAPER DIRECTORIES ARE DOOMED.**
>
>  You won’t be surprised to learn that the Encyclopaedia Britannica, published since 1768, will no longer be available in a paper version. From now on the encyclopedia will only be available online or on CD-ROM.
>
>  The companies that publish “yellow pages” telephone directories ought to be concerned. The fingers that used to go walking though those directories are now moving to the keyboard.
>
>  ...
>
>  Paper directories are doomed because of the interactivity of the Internet. The user can manipulate a single computer database in literally thousands of ways.
>
> **2. PAPER CATALOGS FACE AN UNCERTAIN FUTURE.**
>
>  Mailboxes across the county are stuffed with countless catalogs every day. According to one estimate, 17.6 billion catalogs were mailed in the U.S. last year. That’s sixty-four catalogs for every man, woman, and child.
>
>  ...
>
>  An electronic catalog can be interactive. You can sort by types, by sizes, by colors, by prices, by weights, and so on. Think Amazon.com, for example. You can sort by author, by title, by subject, by category. In contrast, a paper catalog of books is so impractical that few are printed and distributed, except for narrow selections.
>
>  ...
>
>  A better solution for L.L. Bean and other catalog companies is to shift the entire operation to the Web. Don’t try to maintain two expensive distribution channels for a brand whose market is limited.
>
>  You can’t do this overnight. You need transition time. We would gradually reduce the number of catalogs mailed and shift some of the savings into publicity and advertising programs for the Website. You need a way to drive prospects to your site.
>
>  ...
>
>  One of the major advantages of ordering products from a computer rather than from a catalog is the interactivity of the Website. You know instantly whether or not the product is in stock in the color and size you want.
>
> **3. THE ELABORATE FULL-COLOR BROCHURE WILL BECOME EXCEEDINGLY RARE.**
>
>  Many companies will rethink their use of expensive brochures, which are virtually out-of-date the day they come off the press. It’s a lot more efficient to let a prospect stroll through your Website to look at the same information.
>
>  If something catches the prospect’s eye, they can always print out the page using one of the many inexpensive color printers now on the market.
>
> **4. CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING WILL SHIFT TO THE WEB.**
>
>  A big chunk of newspapers’ revenues comes from their classified advertising. This is a category that will come under immense pressure from the Web. Houses, apartments, and job listings, in particular.
>
>  Take the help-wanted category, for example. The first Website to tackle this category was Monster.com, which today leads the Web in online job listings.
>
> **5. THE POSTAL SERVICE WON’T BE DELIVERING AS MUCH MAIL.**
>
>  The words “Letter Carrier” used to be prominently displayed on postal service uniforms. No more. Today the average letter carrier doesn’t carry very many letters. That business has gone electronic, either to phone, facsimile, or e-mail.
>
> **6. FINANCIAL SERVICES OF ALL TYPES WILL SHIFT TO THE WEB.**
>
>  Because money is nothing more than bits on a computer, the entire financial services industry is headed for the Internet.
>
>  It just makes sense to have your bank account in your bedroom or office, where you can check invoices, pay bills, shift funds, and borrow money, all by manipulating bits on a bank’s computer.
>
>  The computer revolutionized the banking industry once before with the introduction of the automated teller machine. What the ATM has started, the computer (in combination with the Internet) will finish. There’s no reason why banking and most financial transactions, including insurance and stock brokerage, should not be handled on the Internet.
>
> **7. THE PARCEL DELIVERY BUSINESS WILL SOAR.**
>
>  The Internet will greatly stimulate business for all of the parcel delivery companies. UPS (United Parcel Service) might want to consider changing its name to IPS (Internet Parcel Service).
>
>  As a result of the increases in parcel volume, you can expect delivery prices to hold steady or even decline.
>
> **8. INTERNET RETAILING WILL BECOME A PRICE GAME.**
>
>  Will most products be bought in cyberspace? Probably not. But the Internet will drastically change the focus of most retailers.
>
>  Some retailers are worried. Home Depot, which is on the verge of selling its own products over the Internet, is rapping the knuckles of suppliers that have similar dreams. The retailer recently sent a letter to all of its vendors telling them to think twice before selling their tools and equipment directly to consumers through their Websites.
>
>  “We think it is shortsighted for vendors to ignore the added value that our retail stores contribute to the sales of their products,” stated the Home Depot letter.
>
>  The company is worried that their vendors will sell products on the Web at prices lower than Home Depot. And they should be worried. The Internet is inherently a less expensive way to distribute a product or service.
>
>  Instead of reading a lot of different ads or driving from store to store, a prospect can sit down at a keyboard and quickly compare prices on a similar item from a large number of sources.
>
>  Furthermore, you can also use an “agent” to help you. Agent companies like ClickTheButton, DealPilot, and RUSure have developed software that will scan various shopping sites for price and delivery data, then sort the information (most often by price).
>
> **9. OUTERNET RETAILING WILL BECOME A SERVICE GAME.**
>
>  Just as the rise of national brands put pressure on Sears to change its strategy, the rise of the Internet will put pressure on retailers to change their strategies, too.
>
>  What retail strategies will work in the shadow of the Internet? We believe the successful retailer of the future will need to play a service game, not a price game. What you might call the Nordstrom approach. (There’s no way a physical retailer can compete with an Internet retailer on price.)
>
>  The successful outernet retailer of the future will have to emphasize the twin aspects of the physical experience: Touch and Time, or what we have been calling “T ‘n’ T.”
>
>  The Touch aspect of the T ‘n’ T strategy involves the ability of the prospect to hold, feel, taste, smell, handle, and try the product, not just see and read about it. (After all, you can see the product in full color on the Internet.)
>
>  Many retailers will have to make their stores a lot more “touch” friendly. Too many products are locked in glass cabinets or entombed in packaging that greatly discourages handling.
>
>  ...
>
>  The customer of the future will not tolerate a physical retailer with frequent out-of-stock problems. Many of these problems, of course, stem from the retailer’s emphasis on low price, which leads to special deals and special purchases. Abandoning a low-price strategy means that a retailer can concentrate on keeping its inventory up-to-date and complete.
>
> **10. INTERNET SEARCH ENGINES WILL DECLINE IN IMPORTANCE.**
>
>   Search engines like Yahoo! are busy adding functions when they should be battening down the hatches for the rough water ahead. Search engines (or portals) are going to be less important in the future than they were in the past.
>
>   Think of it this way. People get to know the Internet brands they want to do business with. When they do, they will go straight to the site instead of making a detour through a search engine. If we want to buy a book, we go to Amazon.com. We don’t go to Yahoo! to find out who on the Net sells books.
>
>   This view of the future is consistent with one’s own personal experience in the real world. Let’s say you move to a new community. You might pick up the yellow pages (paper search engine) every time you go out shopping. After you become familiar with the stores in your new community, you make most of your trips without first consulting the yellow pages.

Hmm. Everything has its time limit. Customers will not always use a product.

> **11. THE INTERNET WILL CHANGE MANY ASPECTS OF THE TELEPHONE INDUSTRY.**
>
>   In many ways, the Internet and the telephone are similar. Both are information and communications media, but the percentages are different.
>
>   If the Internet is 80 percent information and 20 percent communications, the telephone is the opposite. Twenty percent information and 80 percent communications.
>
>   The information segment of the telephone medium is a large business in itself even though it accounts for only 20 percent or so of all phone calls. The visible symbol of this information segment, of course, is the yellow pages. “Let your fingers do the walking.”
>
>   That will change. The Internet will become a direct competitor to the telephone. (Fortunately for the phone companies, most people will continue to use phone lines to connect to the Internet.)
>
>   ...
>
>   What television did to radio, the Internet will do to the telephone. TV virtually wiped out entertainment on radio. The Internet will do the same for information on the telephone. Forget 777-FILM and the ten minutes it takes to get playing times for your favorite movie.
>
> **12. THERE WILL BE SPEED BUMPS ON THE INTERNET.**
>
>   In spite of our rosy predictions, the Internet faces two speed bumps in the near future.
>
>   One is the Internet bubble itself. Just because two guys under thirty start a Website with $30 million in venture-capital funds doesn’t automatically make the site worth $3 billion. The bubble has burst.
>
>   In spite of its enormous acceptance, it’s going to be difficult to make money on the Net. The Internet is a high-volume, low-margin medium. In other words, a price game. Investors didn’t truly understand the nature of this medium. ***While the Internet is wildly popular, it will not be wildly profitable. And profit is what Wall Street ultimately seeks.***
>
>   The Internet will survive and prosper. But many Internet companies will not.
>
>   The second speed bump along the way is the tax issue. Currently there is a moratorium on state and federal taxes.
>
>   That will change. The 46 states, 4,831 cities, and 1,151 counties that impose sales taxes are not going to give the Internet a free ride forever. Sooner or later they are going to want their cut.
>
>   The computer we recently purchased on the Net would have cost $111.72 more (to cover taxes) if bought locally. Sooner or later, the governor, the mayor, or the county tax commissioner is going to want to get his or her hands on that $111.72. You can count on it.
>
> ...
>
> Whatever the future brings, you can be sure of one thing: It will be a destabilizing development. It will change the way you manage your business and the way you build your brands.